Improve docs on connecting to vCloud director (#2140)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/connect-to-vcloud-director.html.md

section: Infrastructure
layout: manual_layout
parent: "/manual.html"
last_reviewed_on: 2019-11-26
review_in: 6 months
---

vCloud Director is the interface we use to manage our infrastructure in
Carrenza. This includes virtual machines, gateways, firewalls and VPNs between
providers.

To access vCloud Director, you will need to connect to a Carrenza-provided VPN.
You can use either Cisco AnyConnect or OpenConnect as a VPN client for this.

## Setting up the Cisco AnyConnect VPN profile on a Mac

1. Clone the govuk-secrets private Git repo. The repo is very large but there
   is no need to download the full history.

    ```sh

>     $ mkdir -p ~/govuk && cd ~/govuk

Reviewer: Adding the $ makes it a lot harder to copy/paste: can we not?

Author: Without the `$` I found it hard to read because we've got the command to run and the output from the command in the same code block. I also wanted to discourage blindly copying commands without understanding what they're doing.

As it is, I'm not even sure we need a whole section about cloning `govuk-secrets` but I couldn't find a suitable page to link to.

Reviewer: Fair enough. There's [the govuk-secrets pass README](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-secrets/tree/master/pass)?

Author: I've amended the commit to link to the `README` and not include any code examples on how to clone it.

    $ git clone --depth 10 git@github.com:alphagov/govuk-secrets.git
    ```

1. Install `oathtool` (this will be used to generate one time passwords).

   ```sh
   $ brew install oath-toolkit
   ```

1. Get the VPN client certificate and private key from the 2nd line
   [password store](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-secrets/tree/master/pass)
   and save the decrypted contents to a file on your machine (for example
     `~/carrenza-vpn-cert-and-key.pem`).

    ```sh
    $ export PASSWORD_STORE_DIR=~/govuk/govuk-secrets/pass/2ndline

>     $ pass carrenza/vpn-certificate > ~/carrenza-vpn-cert-and-key.pem

Reviewer: Make this one line?

Author: I could, however the `PASSWORD_STORE_DIR` environment variable is used later on, but I suppose we could combine both commands into one line.

1. Restart Cisco AnyConnect if it's already running.

1. Delete the key files created earlier as these are no longer needed. (The PEM
   file is needed if you plan to use OpenConnect, however.)

    ```
    rm ~/carrenza-vpn-cert-and-key.{pem,pfx}
    ```

## Connecting with Cisco AnyConnect

1. Choose "Carrenza - Secure" from the drop down list and click "Connect".

   **Note:** The very first time you connect, you may be asked (multiple times)

>    for your Mac OS X username and password (that is, your LDAP username and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for your macOS username and password (that is, your LDAP username and
```

Author: I missed one!!
